#summary Installation guide

== Installation ==

The Sequential Monte Carlo algorithm is written in Python 2.7 and requires several auxiliary modules that come with the project.

 # Download the project and unzip where ever you like.
 
 # Open the file _bin/int.sh_ and set
 {{{
 PROJECT_FOLDER=
 }}}
 to the root of the project folder.

 # Create a symbolic link
 {{{
 sudo ln -s $HOME/PROJECT_FOLDER/bin/int.sh /usr/local/sbin/int
 }}}
 where PROJECT_FOLDER should be the root of the project folder.

== External packages ==

The project uses several external packages that need to be installed.
  * [http://www.scipy.org/ SciPy and NumPy] for scientific computing and fast array manipulations.
  * [http://www.parallelpython.com/ Parallel Python] for parallelized computing.
  * [http://cython.org Cython] for C-extensions to speed up some loops

== Getting started ==

The project comes with some example data sets and launch-files. We can launch a Bayesian variable selection on the covariates of the Boston Housing dataset via
{{{
int -r boston
}}}
The program looks for the config file _data/test_int/boston.ini_ and opens the indicated data file _data/bvs/boston/boston.csv_. The results of the test run are stored in _data/test_int/boston/results.csv_.

Modifications are made by editing the launch files. These are copies of src/ibs/default.ini and override the default values. The default.ini is well documented and should be self-explanatory in combination with the [http://arxiv.org/pdf/1101.6037 literature].